welcome my name is lisa and now i'm
going to talk about
martha marcy may marlene
a 22 year old woman named martha has
been living as a member of a cult in the
catskill mountains for some time the
charismatic
cult leader patrick granted her the name
marcie may upon her initiation
however she decides to flee and escapes
into the woods
arriving at a nearby town in a diner
she is confronted by watts a cult member
who attempts to persuade her to return
but she refuses
martha calls her sister lucy who picks
her up and takes her to the vacation
lake
house in connecticut that she shares
with her husband
a successful and wealthy architect named
ted
while staying with lucy and ted at the
lake house
martha begins exhibiting strange
behavior
swimming in a public lake naked sleeping
all the time
not eating and arguing with her sister
and brother-in-law about how to live
lucy reveals she abandoned martha and is
now attempting to get her back into her
life
while she and ted are also trying to
have their own child
one night martha climbs into bed with
ted and lucy while they are having sex
anchoring ted martha then attempts to
phone the cult
but hangs up when one of the female
members answer using the code name
marlene lewis
in flashbacks martha recalls a series of
disturbing events that led to her escape
the cult
while a member she was drugged and raped
by patrick in an initiation ritual
which she later facilitated for other
incoming female members
patrick would later urge her to murder a
cat which she refused to do
she subsequently began participating in
burglaries with the other cultists
one of which culminated in a struggle
with a homeowner
in which the homeowner was brutally
stabbed to death
upon witnessing the murder martha had a
mental breakdown before patrick
forcefully subdued her and berated her
for her failing to follow the cult's
ideals
lucy and ted host a party at their home
inviting numerous friends from the city
martha is visibly nervous during the
gathering and has a psychotic episode
when she misidentifies the bartender as
a cult member
and has to be sedated ted attempts to
convince lucy to send martha to a
psychiatric
hospital an idea lucy rejects
later that night martha has a nightmare
and a panic attack
ted tries to help her but martha kicks
him down the staircase
lucy threatens to send martha to a
psychiatric hospital
to which martha angrily responds that
lucy will be a terrible mother
the next day lucy and martha reconcile
somewhat
and martha goes swimming she sees a male
cult member watching her across the
shore
and leaves the water when martha departs
the house with lucy and ted
she looks behind from the back seat as a
car follows them
thank you all for watching don't forget
to subscribe
and hit the bell notification for more
of these videos